vars.md, before:

# Environment variables

The vast majority of configurations for the environment are stored
in `config_${user}.sh`. You can manipulate the values of some
environment variables with allowed values as in this table and it is
recommended modifying or adding variables in `config_${user}.sh` config
file instead of exporting them in the shell. By doing that, it is
assured that they are persisted.

| Name | Option | Allowed values | Default |
| :------ | :------- | :--------------- | :-------- |
| EPHEMERAL_CLUSTER | Tool for running management/ephemeral cluster. | minikube, kind, tilt | Ubuntu default is kind. Only minikube is supported on CentOS |
| EXTERNAL_SUBNET                | This is the subnet used on the "baremetal" libvirt network, created as the primary network interface for the virtual bare metalhosts.                                                                                                                    | CIDR                               | 192.168.111.0/24                                             |
| SSH_PUB_KEY                    | This SSH key will be automatically injected into the provisioned host by the clusterctl environment template files.                                                                                                                                                   |                           | ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub                                            |
| CONTAINER_RUNTIME              | Select the Container Runtime                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | "docker", "podman"                   | "podman"                                                     |
| BMOREPO                        | Set the Baremetal Operator repository to clone                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                 | https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator.git          |
| BMOBRANCH                      | Set the Baremetal Operator branch to checkout                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                      | master                                                       |
| CAPM3REPO                      | Set the Cluster Api Metal3 provider repository to clone                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                | https://github.com/metal3-io/cluster-api-provider-metal3.git |
| CAPM3BRANCH                    | Set the Cluster Api Metal3 provider branch to checkout                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                      | master                                                       |
| FORCE_REPO_UPDATE              | Force deletion of the BMO and CAPM3 repositories before cloning them again                                                                                                                                                                               | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| BMO_RUN_LOCAL                  | Run a local baremetal operator instead of deploying in Kubernetes                                                                                                                                                                                        | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| CAPM3_RUN_LOCAL                | Run a local CAPM3 operator instead of deploying in Kubernetes                                                                                                                                                                                             | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| SKIP_RETRIES                   | Do not retry on failure during verifications or tests of the environment. This should be false. It could only be set to false for verifications of a dev env deployment that fully completed. Otherwise failures will appear as resources are not ready. | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| TEST_TIME_INTERVAL             | Interval between retries after verification or test failure (seconds)                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                 | 10                                                           |
| TEST_MAX_TIME                  | Number of maximum verification or test retries                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                 | 120                                                          |
| BMC_DRIVER                     | Set the BMC driver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | "ipmi", "redfish"                    | "mixed"                                                       |
| IMAGE_OS                       | OS of the image to boot the nodes from, overriden by IMAGE\_\* if set                                                                                                                                                                                    | "Centos", "Cirros", "FCOS", "Ubuntu" | "Centos"                                                     |
| IMAGE_NAME                     | Image for target hosts deployment                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                      | "CENTOS_8.2_NODE_IMAGE_K8S_v1.19.3.qcow2"                    |
| IMAGE_LOCATION                 | Location of the image to download                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                 | https://artifactory.nordix.org/artifactory/airship/images/k8s_v1.19.3/                     |
| IMAGE_USERNAME                 | Image username for ssh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                      | "metal3"                                                     |
| IRONIC_IMAGE                   | Container image for local ironic services                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                      | "quay.io/metal3-io/ironic"                                   |
| VBMC_IMAGE                     | Container image for vbmc container                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                      | "quay.io/metal3-io/vbmc"                                     |
| SUSHY_TOOLS_IMAGE              | Container image for sushy-tools container                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                      | "quay.io/metal3-io/sushy-tools"                              |
| CAPM3_VERSION                   | Version of Cluster API provider Metal3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | "v1alpha3", "v1alpha4"   | "v1alpha4"                                                   |
| CAPI_VERSION                   | Version of Cluster API                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | "v1alpha3" | "v1alpha3"                                                   |
| CLUSTER_APIENDPOINT_IP         | API endpoint IP for target cluster                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | "x.x.x.x/x"                          | "192.168.111.249"                                            |
| CLUSTER_PROVISIONING_INTERFACE | Cluster provisioning Interface                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | "ironicendpoint"                     | "ironicendpoint"                                             |
| POD_CIDR                       | Pod CIDR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "x.x.x.x/x"                          | "192.168.0.0/18"                                             |
| KUBERNETES_VERSION                       | Kubernetes version                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "x.x.x"                          | "1.20.4"                                             |
| KUBERNETES_BINARIES_VERSION                       | Version of kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "x.x.x-xx" or "x.x.x"                          | same as KUBERNETES_VERSION                                             |
| KUBERNETES_BINARIES_CONFIG_VERSION                       | Version of kubelet.service and 10-kubeadm.conf files                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "vx.x.x"                          | "v0.2.7"                                             |
| NUM_NODES                | Set the number of virtual machines to be provisioned. This VMs will be further configured as control-plane or worker Nodes      |   | 2 |
| VM_EXTRADISKS            | Add extra disks to the virtual machines provisioned. By default the size of the extra disk is set in the libvirt Ansible role to 8 GB        | "true", "false" | "false" |
| DEFAULT_HOSTS_MEMORY     | Set the default memory size in MB for the virtual machines provisioned.        |  | 4096 |
| CLUSTER_NAME             | Set the name of the target cluster |  | test1 |
| IRONIC_TLS_SETUP | Enable TLS for Ironic and inspector | "true", "false" | "true" |
| IRONIC_BASIC_AUTH | Enable HTTP basic authentication for Ironic and inspector | "true", "false" | "true" |
| IRONIC_CA_CERT_B64 | Base 64 encoded CA certificate of Ironic |  |   |
| IRONIC_CACERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.pem |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_CACERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.pem |
| IRONIC_CAKEY_FILE | Path to the CA key of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.key |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_CAKEY_FILE | Path to the CA key of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.key |
| IRONIC_CERT_FILE | Path to the certificate of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic.crt |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_CERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-inspector.crt |
| IRONIC_KEY_FILE | Path to the certificate key of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic.key |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_KEY_FILE | Path to the certificate key of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-inspector.key |
| IRONIC_USERNAME | Username for Ironic basic auth |  |  |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_USERNAME | Username for Ironic inspector basic auth |  |  |
| IRONIC_PASSWORD | Password for Ironic basic auth |  |  |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_PASSWORD | Password for Ironic inspector basic auth |  |  |
| REGISTRY_PORT | Container image registry port |  | 5000 |
| HTTP_PORT | Httpd server port |  | 6180 |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_PORT | Ironic Inspector port |  | 5050 |
| IRONIC_API_PORT | Ironic Api port |  | 6385 |
| NODE_DRAIN_TIMEOUT | Set the nodeDrainTimeout for controlplane and worker template |  | '0s' |
| MARIADB_KEY_FILE | Path to the key of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/mariadb.key |
| MARIADB_CERT_FILE | Path to the cert of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/mariadb.crt |
| MARIADB_CAKEY_FILE | Path to the CA key of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.key |
| MARIADB_CACERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.pem |

Commit message:

The Cluster API control plane now allows for scaling in. This PR parameterizes the required metal3_dev_env fields and adds a new environment variable MAX_SURGE_VALUE.

vars.md, after:

# Environment variables

The vast majority of configurations for the environment are stored
in `config_${user}.sh`. You can manipulate the values of some
environment variables with allowed values as in this table and it is
recommended modifying or adding variables in `config_${user}.sh` config
file instead of exporting them in the shell. By doing that, it is
assured that they are persisted.

| Name | Option | Allowed values | Default |
| :------ | :------- | :--------------- | :-------- |
| NUM_OF_MASTER_REPLICAS | Set the controlplane replica count. ||1| 
| MAX_SURGE_VALUE | This variable defines if controlplane should scale-in or scale-out during upgrade. | 0 (scale-in) or 1 (scale-out) |1| 
| EPHEMERAL_CLUSTER | Tool for running management/ephemeral cluster. | minikube, kind, tilt | Ubuntu default is kind. Only minikube is supported on CentOS |
| EXTERNAL_SUBNET                | This is the subnet used on the "baremetal" libvirt network, created as the primary network interface for the virtual bare metalhosts.                                                                                                                    | CIDR                               | 192.168.111.0/24                                             |
| SSH_PUB_KEY                    | This SSH key will be automatically injected into the provisioned host by the clusterctl environment template files.                                                                                                                                                   |                           | ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub                                            |
| CONTAINER_RUNTIME              | Select the Container Runtime                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | "docker", "podman"                   | "podman"                                                     |
| BMOREPO                        | Set the Baremetal Operator repository to clone                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                 | https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator.git          |
| BMOBRANCH                      | Set the Baremetal Operator branch to checkout                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                      | master                                                       |
| CAPM3REPO                      | Set the Cluster Api Metal3 provider repository to clone                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                | https://github.com/metal3-io/cluster-api-provider-metal3.git |
| CAPM3BRANCH                    | Set the Cluster Api Metal3 provider branch to checkout                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                      | master                                                       |
| FORCE_REPO_UPDATE              | Force deletion of the BMO and CAPM3 repositories before cloning them again                                                                                                                                                                               | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| BMO_RUN_LOCAL                  | Run a local baremetal operator instead of deploying in Kubernetes                                                                                                                                                                                        | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| CAPM3_RUN_LOCAL                | Run a local CAPM3 operator instead of deploying in Kubernetes                                                                                                                                                                                             | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| SKIP_RETRIES                   | Do not retry on failure during verifications or tests of the environment. This should be false. It could only be set to false for verifications of a dev env deployment that fully completed. Otherwise failures will appear as resources are not ready. | "true", "false"                      | "false"                                                      |
| TEST_TIME_INTERVAL             | Interval between retries after verification or test failure (seconds)                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                 | 10                                                           |
| TEST_MAX_TIME                  | Number of maximum verification or test retries                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                 | 120                                                          |
| BMC_DRIVER                     | Set the BMC driver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | "ipmi", "redfish"                    | "mixed"                                                       |
| IMAGE_OS                       | OS of the image to boot the nodes from, overriden by IMAGE\_\* if set                                                                                                                                                                                    | "Centos", "Cirros", "FCOS", "Ubuntu" | "Centos"                                                     |
| IMAGE_NAME                     | Image for target hosts deployment                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                      | "CENTOS_8.2_NODE_IMAGE_K8S_v1.19.3.qcow2"                    |
| IMAGE_LOCATION                 | Location of the image to download                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                 | https://artifactory.nordix.org/artifactory/airship/images/k8s_v1.19.3/                     |
| IMAGE_USERNAME                 | Image username for ssh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                      | "metal3"                                                     |
| IRONIC_IMAGE                   | Container image for local ironic services                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                      | "quay.io/metal3-io/ironic"                                   |
| VBMC_IMAGE                     | Container image for vbmc container                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                      | "quay.io/metal3-io/vbmc"                                     |
| SUSHY_TOOLS_IMAGE              | Container image for sushy-tools container                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                      | "quay.io/metal3-io/sushy-tools"                              |
| CAPM3_VERSION                   | Version of Cluster API provider Metal3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | "v1alpha3", "v1alpha4"   | "v1alpha4"                                                   |
| CAPI_VERSION                   | Version of Cluster API                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | "v1alpha3" | "v1alpha3"                                                   |
| CLUSTER_APIENDPOINT_IP         | API endpoint IP for target cluster                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | "x.x.x.x/x"                          | "192.168.111.249"                                            |
| CLUSTER_PROVISIONING_INTERFACE | Cluster provisioning Interface                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | "ironicendpoint"                     | "ironicendpoint"                                             |
| POD_CIDR                       | Pod CIDR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "x.x.x.x/x"                          | "192.168.0.0/18"                                             |
| KUBERNETES_VERSION                       | Kubernetes version                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "x.x.x"                          | "1.20.4"                                             |
| KUBERNETES_BINARIES_VERSION                       | Version of kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "x.x.x-xx" or "x.x.x"                          | same as KUBERNETES_VERSION                                             |
| KUBERNETES_BINARIES_CONFIG_VERSION                       | Version of kubelet.service and 10-kubeadm.conf files                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | "vx.x.x"                          | "v0.2.7"                                             |
| NUM_NODES                | Set the number of virtual machines to be provisioned. This VMs will be further configured as control-plane or worker Nodes      |   | 2 |
| VM_EXTRADISKS            | Add extra disks to the virtual machines provisioned. By default the size of the extra disk is set in the libvirt Ansible role to 8 GB        | "true", "false" | "false" |
| DEFAULT_HOSTS_MEMORY     | Set the default memory size in MB for the virtual machines provisioned.        |  | 4096 |
| CLUSTER_NAME             | Set the name of the target cluster |  | test1 |
| IRONIC_TLS_SETUP | Enable TLS for Ironic and inspector | "true", "false" | "true" |
| IRONIC_BASIC_AUTH | Enable HTTP basic authentication for Ironic and inspector | "true", "false" | "true" |
| IRONIC_CA_CERT_B64 | Base 64 encoded CA certificate of Ironic |  |   |
| IRONIC_CACERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.pem |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_CACERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.pem |
| IRONIC_CAKEY_FILE | Path to the CA key of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.key |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_CAKEY_FILE | Path to the CA key of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.key |
| IRONIC_CERT_FILE | Path to the certificate of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic.crt |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_CERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-inspector.crt |
| IRONIC_KEY_FILE | Path to the certificate key of Ironic |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic.key |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_KEY_FILE | Path to the certificate key of Ironic inspector |  | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-inspector.key |
| IRONIC_USERNAME | Username for Ironic basic auth |  |  |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_USERNAME | Username for Ironic inspector basic auth |  |  |
| IRONIC_PASSWORD | Password for Ironic basic auth |  |  |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_PASSWORD | Password for Ironic inspector basic auth |  |  |
| REGISTRY_PORT | Container image registry port |  | 5000 |
| HTTP_PORT | Httpd server port |  | 6180 |
| IRONIC_INSPECTOR_PORT | Ironic Inspector port |  | 5050 |
| IRONIC_API_PORT | Ironic Api port |  | 6385 |
| NODE_DRAIN_TIMEOUT | Set the nodeDrainTimeout for controlplane and worker template |  | '0s' |
| MARIADB_KEY_FILE | Path to the key of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/mariadb.key |
| MARIADB_CERT_FILE | Path to the cert of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/mariadb.crt |
| MARIADB_CAKEY_FILE | Path to the CA key of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.key |
| MARIADB_CACERT_FILE | Path to the CA certificate of MariaDB | | /opt/metal3-dev-env/certs/ironic-ca.pem |
